Hello, everyone,
and thanks for joining us today.
My name is Pranav, and I work on
the media quality team here at Apple.
I'm very excited today
to talk about the Apple Pro Display XDR.
In this talk, we are going to guide
app developers
as well as professional users
on how to work with this amazing display
and use it in the most recommended way.
The Pro Display XDR is
a high-grade reference monitor.
It's a 32-inch LCD display,
has over 20 million pixels,
and with a 6K resolution,
this is the largest retina display
Apple has ever made.
It has a P3 wide color gamut
and supports true 10-bit color.
The display can get as bright
as 1600 nits,
and it can even maintain 1000 nits
of full-screen luminance indefinitely.
This makes it an ideal display
for all your HDR workflows.
We have also built reference modes
into the display,
and all of these modes are calibrated
at the factory.
For you, this means you can now work on
a display which has a high color accuracy
and comes packed with features
for all your postproduction needs.
We have built every element
on this display for pros.
It is designed to support
professional workflows
such as video editing,
photography, color grading,
visual effects, 3D animation
and game development.
Now, a few of the pro apps out there
have already been customized
to work with this display.
And here you can see a few of them.
As an example, Blackmagic Design
has enabled the support of EDR in Resolve.
This has enabled Resolve to display
both extended range
and SDR content simultaneously.
They have also added the ability to assign
unique color spaces
to the input footage, the timeline
working space and the output.
And while Adobe Premiere Pro
and Foundry Nuke
have already implemented
preliminary support for EDR,
full EDR support for these apps
will be coming soon.
In this session, we want to help
other pro app developers
create and customize their own app,
making full use
of this display's capabilities.
At the same time,
we want to provide our pro users
with the best practices
on using this display
to ensure their workflows
are set up correctly.
With that aim in mind,
here's what we'll cover today.
We're going to start by understanding
what reference modes are
and learn about
the different characteristics
of reference modes
available on this display.
We'll then talk about
some of the key concepts
related to color management and EDR
which are crucial when developing
pro apps for this display.
Next, for our pro users,
we will discuss some of
the recent features we have shipped
and how these features
can make their workflows
both more capable and accurate.
And finally, we'll show you
how you should measure
the front-of-screen response
of this display
and ensure that your content
is being rendered correctly
as you work in any of the reference modes.
So let's get started.
Well, what are reference modes?
For each of the reference modes,
we have configured the luminance, color
and gamma response of the display itself,
so when you switch from
one reference mode to another,
the display changes its own behavior
to adapt to the particular workflow.
And since each of these modes
are calibrated,
you can expect high color accuracy
for all your reference modes.
Now given this, a reference mode
is much more than simply plugging in
an ICC display profile.
In fact, as you switch
between reference modes,
ICC profiles get automatically populated,
which helps the display
work in conjunction
with color management provided by macOS.
And like with any color managed system,
your media surfaces need to be tagged
with color descriptors.
And we'll discuss this in detail soon.
The display comes with several
built-in reference modes out of the box.
And there are two categories
of reference modes.
The first is Apple-designed modes,
which reflect the characteristics
of our internal Mac displays.
So when you are in one of
the Apple-designed modes,
you will notice
dynamic adaptation features,
such as True Tone or auto brightness,
can be enabled or disabled.
These adaptive technologies are great
because they facilitate viewing even in
a non-reference viewing environment.
However, professional users
who are authoring content
in a reference environment
would want to work in reference modes
where these dynamic features
are strictly disabled.
For that, we have standards-based modes.
These have been designed to support
specific postproduction workflows
which are in alignment with
common industry specifications
and assume that you are working
in the reference viewing environment.
Viewing condition is extremely important
when using these modes.
Typically most workflows require you
to work in a dim viewing environment.
Let's look at a few of the most popular
reference modes in detail.
This is the HDTV video reference mode
built using the ITU BT.709
and BT.1886 recommendations.
Now, while our display
can do up to 1600 nits
and a P3 wide color gamut,
you do not need all of it when
working in an SDR workflow.
So when you switch to this mode,
we intentionally restrict the peak
luminance of the display to 100 nits
and the color volume
to a Rec.709 color gamut.
Also all dynamic controls are disabled,
and you should use this reference mode
in a dim viewing environment.
Next let's check out
the HDR video reference mode.
Here we see a P3 wide color gamut
and a peak HDR luminance of 1000 nits.
And you can have 1000 nits
of full-screen luminance indefinitely.
For you, this means you can
now work on your HDR workflows
for as long as you want
and not worry about the patch size
or a huge drop in luminance over time.
In the pro display XDR reference mode,
we make full use of
the display's capabilities.
Here we have an HDR
peak luminance of 1600 nits
for up to 39% of screen area.
And your SDR peak luminance
can be set up to 500 nits
using the brightness slider.
Also, all dynamic adaptation features
can be enabled,
and HDR video content is tone mapped.
Now, very often you would want
both your SDR and HDR assets
to be displayed simultaneously
on the same screen.
For example,
you might want to check your e-mail,
which is in SDR,
and also play a video
which might be in HDR.
To enable this, we have
come up with a unique way
of merging both SDR and HDR elements
into one.
And we'll discuss soon how we do that.
We will now talk about
a few important concepts to be aware of
when developing apps for this display.
To understand reference modes more,
we need to understand
the different pixel processing stages
in our media pipeline.
Let me show you what happens
when we are in one of
the SDR reference modes.
Our SDR video content is
decoded by core media
and tagged with the color descriptors
in the file.
Next, both UI and SDR video
get mapped into a common
color representation for composition.
The composed interface is then mapped
to the display's transfer function
and color space
before sending it out to the pro display.
When we are working in
an HDR reference mode,
such as the HDR video
or the pro display XDR mode,
the Mac and the display
communicate over a PQ link.
Again, SDR content and UI
is decoded to linear light
using the tagged color space and gamma.
HDR content is decoded to linear light
using the PQ or HLG transfer function.
All compositing is done in an EDR space.
Let's discuss briefly what EDR is.
EDR stands for extended dynamic range,
and it's our approach to simultaneously
represent SDR and HDR scenes
using extended range.
EDR is an SDR referred working space,
such that SDR content remains unchanged
in its logical 0-to-1 range
while EDR allows brighter values
above 1.0.
The range above EDR 1.0,
typically referred to as headroom,
is generally reserved
to represent specular highlights
and emissive surfaces in the scene.
Finally, the composited frame
is mapped to the display's color space
and PQ transfer function
and sent to the display.
Now we have seen the different
reference modes behave differently
and make use of the color management
provided by macOS.
As a result of this,
it is extremely important
to tag your media content,
both images and videos, correctly.
This will ensure that the media data
gets interpreted correctly by macOS,
which is a color managed system.
For images, you would assign
a color profile to it,
and for videos, you would tag it
with standard color descriptors.
Let's look at the color descriptors
in a video file.
You can use QuickTime Player's
Movie Inspector
to read the color tags
associated with the video file.
The color primaries tag
specifies the mapping
from linear RGB to XYZ space.
The transfer function tag
specifies the electrooptical
transfer function
to convert nonlinear R'G'B' code words
to linear RGB space.
And finally, the Y'CbCr matrix
specifies the mapping
between Y'CbCr and R'G'B' space.
If you are using AVFoundation
to tag your content,
I recommend watching
this year's WWDC session
on exporting HDR media.
For reference modes on pro display XDR,
here's a table of
recommended color descriptors
you should be using
when tagging your video files.
These tags ensure that your content
gets interpreted correctly
in the reference mode you are working in.
Now, if your app
is using AVFoundation framework,
it will correctly identify
the reference mode
and provide the necessary color management
required for each of the modes.
First, Y'CbCr code word in the source
gets decoded by core media
and converted to nonlinear R'G'B'
code word in source color space.
This is then mapped
to the preset's transfer function
and color space.
The display can then use
the preset's characteristics
to linearize the input signal.
If your app hardware uses
a custom video pipeline,
here are a few things that you need to do.
First, you need to convert
code words in Y'CbCr space to R'G'B'
using the NCLC tag
specified for the Y'CbCr matrix.
The R'G'B' code words
should then be linearized to niche value
and mapped into EDR.
This mapping into EDR should be done
such that EDR 1.0 is mapped
to reference white in the source.
Pixels which are brighter
than reference white
can then be mapped
to EDR values greater than 1.0.
The display pipeline then
takes care of mapping EDR
to preset's color space
and feeding that to the display.
Now, based on the reference mode
the user is working in,
you will want to manage
the mapping to EDR differently.
This will help you tailor
your app's behavior
to take advantage of it.
To correctly identify which reference mode
the user is working in,
you can make use of the EDR parameters.
Let's understand each of the three
headroom parameters.
Potential headroom tells you
the maximum headroom possible
in the current display configuration.
And it might vary from
one reference mode to another.
For example, the HDR video reference mode
has a peak HDR luminance of 1000 nits
and a peak SDR luminance of 100 nits.
This implies it has
a potential headroom of 10.0.
The HDTV video mode,
which has a peak SDR and HDR luminance
of 100 nits,
has a potential headroom of 1.0.
The headroom parameter can raise the
amount of headroom currently available,
and this can be less than or equal to
the potential headroom.
Note that as brightness is increased
in a reference mode,
headroom can decrease.
As an example, the Pro Display XDR preset
has a peak HDR luminance of 1600 nits.
If the brightness slider is
set to an SDR peak of 200 nits,
the headroom is 8.0,
while the potential headroom is still 16.
Finally, reference headroom
is the amount of headroom
in which you can expect accurate
reproduction of requested luminance.
Reference headroom can be
less than or equal to the headroom value.
For example, in the HDR video
and the HDTV video reference modes,
we guarantee accurate reproduction
for up to 1000 nits and 100 nits,
respectively.
Hence the reference headroom
is the same as headroom for these modes.
For Apple-designed modes,
the reference headroom is zero.
And here's how you can do it in code.
First, we create an NSScreen object
which points to
the Pro Display XDR screen.
Then, we can query
the potentialHeadroom, headroom
and referenceHeadroom parameters.
Now that your video pipeline is set up,
you would want to evaluate your app's
color performance for correctness.
One way to do that
is to measure the front-of-screen response
of the display
using a measurement instrument
such as a spectroradiometer.
Here's a flowchart
summarizing the different stages involved.
As we discussed previously,
color management is performed in macOS
to map the input signal to
the preset's color space.
The Pro Display XDR then
takes in the R'G'B' code words as input
and generates the light spectrum.
A spectroradiometer can then be used
to measure the light output
to derive luminance
and chromaticity values.
To help with this process,
we have provided video test patterns
which are available on
the AVFoundation developer web page.
These test patterns
are QuickTime movie files
tagged with the correct NCLC
and static metadata
for HDR 10 files.
And this includes a 21-step
luminance ramp,
100% amplitude color primaries
and color secondaries.
We have also included with it
the reference luminance and
chromaticity values that you should expect
when these test patterns are displayed in
the reference mode they're designed for.
We will now talk about
deploying Pro Display XDR
and show how our pro users
can make use of some of
the new features we have released
to make their workflows
both more capable and more accurate.
So Pro Display XDR
is calibrated at the factory
and is ready to be used out of the box.
We also have a list of
built-in reference modes
which have been designed for
the most popular workflows.
Together with these,
we now also support
an array of customization options.
Let's start by talking about
customized reference modes.
Now, although the display comes with
a list of reference modes built into it,
but what if your unique workflow,
it needs a different combination
of transfer function,
white point and color gamut?
Or if you want to use a different
maximum luminance target?
For that, we have
customized reference modes
available in macOS 10.15.4 and later.
With custom reference modes,
you can now customize these parameters
to create a unique reference mode.
Let me show you how we can create
a custom reference mode.
Let's imagine you need
to create a workflow
with 600 nits of maximum HDR luminance.
Also let's say you would like your UI
to be brighter than 100 nits.
Maybe 200 nits.
You should first select Displays
from System Preferences.
On the window title Pro Display XDR,
select Customize Presets
from the presets list.
Now choose a base preset
from which you want to create
your custom preset.
Next, click on the plus icon.
Here you can name your preset
and edit the description.
From the available options,
you can choose the color gamut,
the white point
and the SDR transfer function.
You can also explicitly apply
a system gamma boost.
Finally, we change
the maximum HDR luminance to 600 nits
and the maximum SDR luminance to 200 nits
and save the preset.
We have now created
our unique custom reference mode.
Let's look at the next feature.
Now, very often measurement instruments
have slight differences
from one unit to another.
And if all your workflows have been set up
to work with your in-house instrument,
you may want to fine-tune
your Pro Display XDR
to match with other displays.
For those of you who have access
to high-end calibrated spectroradiometers,
you can now do this using
the fine-tune calibration feature.
Fine-tune calibration is available
in macOS 10.15.6 and later.
This feature allows you to adjust
your display's luminance and white point
so that it better aligns
with your in-house spectroradiometer
and matches other monitors.
Let's see how we can use this
on Pro Display XDR.
First, we go to System Preferences
and choose Displays.
In the preset list pop-up menu,
we can see the Fine-Tune Calibration
option available.
Here, we need to enter
our measured and target
luminance and white point values.
In the next section,
we will discuss in detail
how we can obtain these.
Now we know that as content creators,
you want to make sure that your display
is behaving the way you expect it to.
So in this section,
we will discuss how
you can objectively evaluate
that your content is being rendered
correctly.
Here is a flowchart describing
our recommended process
for front-of-screen evaluation
when using the Pro Display XDR.
First, we need to create our test patterns
and calculate
the reference values we expect
when the test patterns are displayed
on a reference monitor
and measured
using a calibrated spectroradiometer.
Then, we set up our measuring instrument
and the environment.
For accurate results,
we recommend you use
high-end calibrated spectroradiometers
while making measurements.
Here is a list of a few spectroradiometers
that we recommend using.
Also, make sure your instrument
is configured correctly.
For example, if you're using
a Photo Research PR-740 spectroradiometer,
you might want to set your instrument's
bandwidth to four nanometers
and set the average number of readings
for each measurement
to be three or higher.
Your low luminance measurements
might get affected
if stray light interferes
with your measurement.
For best results,
make sure your environment
is completely dark.
And to avoid any thermal radiation,
we recommend working in a room
with controlled temperature,
typically less than 25 degrees Celsius.
The next step is to display
the test patterns on screen
and make measurements.
Once you have the measurements
and reference values,
you should perform an error analysis.
Very high errors might indicate
an error in the process.
This can be either your test patterns
aren't tagged correctly,
your reference mode selection is incorrect
or your instrument and environment
isn't set up properly.
For error analysis,
you should compute
perceptual color difference metrics
to know how visible the differences are
between the measured and reference values.
In this example, I'm using a color
difference calculator we have built
which computes several
perceptual color difference metrics.
We will be providing you
with the sample code for this.
The calculator takes in
reference and measured values
and computes delta-E ITP, delta-E 2000
and delta PQ metrics.
You can define your input signals
from a list of color spaces,
color gamuts...
transfer functions and representations.
Since our input signals are
spectroradiometer measurements,
we will select the Yxy color space.
Next, we enter the reference luminance
and chromaticity values.
And for this example,
we have chosen 94 nits, D65 as our target.
We then enter the measured luminance
and chromaticity values,
which are slightly off the target,
as you can see.
Finally, we compute the error metrics.
We can repeat this process
for the entire 21-step luminance ramp
to compute error metrics
for each measurement point.
This is an example of a chart showing
delta-E ITP values for the entire ramp.
And you can see that
the maximum error in this case
occurs for a target luminance
of around 94 nits.
Next, if the errors are
perceptually insignificant,
we have validated our workflow.
But if the errors in luminance and
white point are perceptually significant,
we can improve those
using the fine-tune calibration feature.
We will now use the maximum error case
to fine-tune our display.
First we enter the measured white point
and luminance values.
Then we enter the target white point
Finally, we can add a description
and hit "okay"
to fine-tune the calibration
of our display.
We have fine-tuned
the calibration of our display now.
For a final validation,
we'll make measurements
and perform an error analysis again.
This is an example to show you
the improvement in delta-E ITP
that you might see
after fine-tune calibration.
The entire luminance ramp
will match your in-house spectroradiometer
much more closely now.
We will soon be adding support
for performing an in-field recalibration
of your display.
With this feature, you will be able
to recalibrate your display
for better alignment with your instrument.
The calibration process will adjust
your display's
color primaries, luminance and gamma
and will require a high-end
spectroradiometer and a dark environment.
And here's the process flowchart
updated with in-field recalibration
added to the flow.
Here are a few important things
that we want you to take away
from this talk.
Reference modes on Pro Display XDR
are much more than using
an ICC display profile
and provides a way
to configure the luminance,
color and gamma response
of the display itself.
Using color management on Mac,
each reference mode supports
multiple media formats.
You can either use
the AVFoundation framework
or color manage your own video pipeline.
With customized reference modes,
now you can create your own reference mode
and work on your unique workflows.
You can evaluate your workflow
using Apple-provided
test patterns and reference values.
And finally, you can use the in-field
recalibration and fine-tuning features
to adjust your display's color primaries,
luminance and white point
for better alignment
with your in-house measurement instrument.
Thank you.